Hey,
guys,
welcome back.
So in this video,
we're going to discuss the workbook window.
Activate event.
So the workbook window activate event.
What it does is that it triggers any code or it executes any code.
When you activate a window on your workbook on it actually should be a window on the
workbook that this event is in.
So it should be on the workbook called workbook events,
for example.
Okay.
And actually,
to be able to understand this event better,
we need to actually put it in comparison with the workbook.
Activate event.
This is why I've got the workbook.
Activate event here is well,
okay,
and I've got a message box on it.
Here.
You have activated the workbook,
so this message box will be triggered when we actually do something that triggers the
workbook.
Activate event.
So,
actually,
I need to put the two events in comparison for you to be able to understand the difference
and to be able to eventually understand what the window activate event is.
And also to be able to understand the window activate event,
we need to create a new window.
So I'm going to do that.
Okay,
so I'm gonna go to the view top here on the ribbon and click on New Window.
And I've created a new window for the workbook Cold War book events.
And when you create a new window,
you basically have another window or view on the workbook.
OK,
maybe you want to have to work sheets visible at the same time.
Okay,
so you can see here.
Workbook events ones.
This is the first window workbook events too.
This is the second window on the 1st 1 I've got sheets six selected.
And on the 2nd 1 I've got sheet to selected.
So it's just another window.
Another perspective that enables you to look at the workbook,
you know,
at something else on the workbook.
So you can see to work sheets at the same time,
you know?
So this is,
you know,
one of the applications off creating a new window.
Okay,
So what I'm gonna do,
actually,
I'm gonna go to my event here.
Of course,
you can get it by double clicking on this workbook.
Selecting workbook on this menu and selecting window activate from this man.
You are believe we've done that.
Ah,
lot here on the course so far.
And I'm going to write a message box.
You have activated the window,
and I'm gonna add also with sheet.
Okay,
I'm gonna put a space here.
I'm gonna close my double quotes,
and I'm gonna can contine eight on that.
You can see here there is a parameter called W,
and and WN basically refers to the window that's just been activated.
So I'm gonna write WN dot and actually,
it has a property called the active sheets.
Okay.
And the active sheet is basically the sheep that is active on that window.
Dark name.
And I'm gonna canton eight that on.
Ah,
the word active.
Okay,
So it's going to say you have activated the window with sheet and it's gonna tell you what
the sheet name is,
and then the word active.
Okay,
so let's start examining the difference between the workbook activate event and the window
.
Activate event the workbook window.
Activate event.
So I'm also here.
Actually,
you consider that the event has been triggered.
Okay,
this is the window activate event.
Okay.
I'm also going to create a new workbook here by President Control and all my on my keyboard
and Now This isn't you Work but called book for now.
If you go to any window on our workbook events Workbook,
you can see here you have activated the workbooks.
This is the workbook.
Activate event triggered here.
And also you have activated the window with sheet sheet.
Six active.
Okay,
so this is the workbook window.
Activate event.
So you can see here when we go from another workbook to our workbook that has even event
written on it.
It will trigger both the workbook activate event and the window.
Activate event.
Okay.
However,
if we move from one window on our workbook to another window on this same workbooks because
here workbook for more book events.
One,
this is one window to workbook events to this is another window.
So as you can see here,
you have activated the window with the sheet sheet too active.
So this is on Lee the window.
Activate event triggered.
Okay,
you can see here there is no other message box triggered.
So we've moved from one window on the same work,
but to another window on the same workbook,
and that only triggered the window.
Activate event.
Okay,
so that's the difference when you come from one workbook back to another.
Workbook is gonna sugar both the window activate and the workbook activate.
But when you go from one window on one workbook to another window on the same workbook,
there's only gonna trigger the window.
Activate event.
Okay,
so I hope that was clear for you.
so that's it.
Basically for the window.
Activate event.
Of course,
you can run any code that you right in there by triggering the event.
When you do what triggers the event,
which is actually moving from one window to another.
And I typically don't use it a lot.
But if there is something that this event will prove useful for for yourself,
I would be interested to know it.
Okay.
Thank you very much watching this video I'll see on the next one.